welcome in this series of videos you'll
learn how to use ice to copy and merge
topologies you'll also learn how to
apply materials using ice the goal is to
generate a building from predefined
parts in this example you will use a
main floor a middle floor and a Rufus
templates there are several advantages
to using ice modeling for this for one
thing you can create a slider to change
the number of floors interactively this
would not be possible with an honest
approach such as cloning emerging
cloning emerging would also create many
extra objects in the scene another
approach might be to duplicate polygon
islands this doesn't require as many
extra objects and also provides a slider
however it would be difficult to update
the roots position when you change the
number of floors it would also be
difficult to move all the upper parts
when you modify something below them ice
modeling offers good solutions for most
of these problems so it's an ideal
approach to a project like this before
recreating the building from scratch
let's explore this scene further the
three templates were modeled to fit
together perfectly and they've been
offset to see them better in addition
there is a null which is used to control
the placement of the building
there's also an empty mesh called
material container that acts as a
convenient central location to manage
all the materials this material
container has an ice tree that gets the
names of materials puts them in an array
and stores the array as a special ice
attribute named materials an array is an
ordered list of elements when referring
to elements in this list you must use
the array indices such as 0 1 2 and so
on each of the three meshes has an ice
tree that copies the materials attribute
from the material container this allows
you to change the materials defined in
the container and all objects will
update automatically the tree also sets
each polygons material ID based on
pre-existing clusters material ID is a
special ice attribute that specifies
which material in the materials array to
apply / polygon for each material the
tree gets each cluster by name and sets
the polygons material ID to the
corresponding index of the materials
array note that for the material ID
attribute the integer 1 refers to the
first material in the array even though
its array index is 0 this is because the
material id0 always refers to the
material applied directly to the object
the building has a nice tree that builds
its topology based on the templates then
transfers the material ID attributes
from the templates and finally copies
the materials array from the container
before rebuilding this tree from scratch
let's take a closer look at what it's
doing this will make it easier to follow
along later the top branch gets the main
floor middle floor and roof then it gets
their topology attributes transforms the
topologies
builds an array from the transformed
topologies and finally sets the
building's topology if we take a closer
look at the set topologies compound it
just merges the topology array and sets
the topology attribute on the self
object for the middle floors there's a
second array that gets inserted into the
middle of the main array between the
main floor and the roof the transform
that gets applied to the topologies is
based on the nulls of global kinematics
there were also some additional offsets
that need to be applied for the middle
floors and roof the second branch of the
tree sets the material IDs of the
polygons the polygons index is used to
determine the corresponding polygons on
the original object then the tree looks
up the material ID of the original
polygon and sets it on the new one
different operations are needed to
calculate the corresponding polygons on
the original objects depending on
whether the polygon is on the main floor
middle floors or roof the last branch of
the tree is very simple it just gets and
sets the materials array from the
materials container just like on every
other object so now you've got a good
overview of how the tree works in the
next video we'll see how it was put
together in the first place